Core Java interview questions:

Why strings are immutable?
When should we use protected method?
What is static and instance initializer in java API?
What happened when we change string object?
What inside valueOf() static method?
Why generics using only wrapper classes?
Why wrapper not used in Arrays?
What is Autoboxing and Autounboxing?
what is IS-A and HAS-A relationship?
What is compositition?
What is aggregation?
WHat is super() method?
What is javap?
why static method cannot return obj ref?
Why static method can't overridden?
What is obj cloning?
What is diff bw comporator and comparable?
What is marker interface?
WHy clone method used?
what is functional interface?
what is diff b/w inheritance and interface?
Have you worked on thread concept?
What is exception?
Diff types of exception?
What is the use of finally block?
What will happen if don't close the resource or connection?
Is that lead to memory leak or memory management?
How you ever face memory leaks in your application?
What is the use of collection?
Collection vs collections?
Linkedlist vs Arraylist?
How hashmaps works?
How to update any hash position in your project?
How to handle hash position in your current project?
Have you used any features on java  streams?
What is data hiding?
What is the use of data hiding?
What is abstraction?
Adv of abstraction?
What is encapsulation?
Diff bw encapsulation and abstraction?
What is inheritance?
What is method signature?
What is polymorphism?
Diff bw method overloading vs overridding?
Loose coupling vs tight coupling?
class vs object?
How to prevent a class from being subclass in java?
Can we access private method in java ?
Diff bw checked and unched exception?
How to fix concurrent modification exception?
Abstract vs interface in java 8?
When to use interface and abstract class?
Have you applied object cloning in java?
Hashset vs hash map?
When to use transient variable?
Give an example from your project when to use arraylisy and linked list?
String buffer vs stringbuilder?
How to create user def exception?
What is better ways to display exception in java?
When should we go for join()?
Types of exception faced in the project how do you resolved it?
Why do we need generics?
Bufferreader vs Scanner?
Collection concepts in real world example?
OOPs with real world example?
Singleton class in java?
Constructor vs method?
Explain public static void main(String args)?
Heap vs stack?
Classnotfoundexception vs NoclassDefFoundError?